# Fundamentals of Data Analysis #

---

### **Name: James McEneaney**
### **Course: Higher Diploma in Computing in Data Analytics, ATU Ireland**
### **Semester: Semester 2 2023**
### ** Tasks and Project **

---

## Overview ##

This repository relates to the Fundamentals of Data Analysis module for the course. It contains two main files: 

- A Jupyter Notebook file called 'tasks.ipynb', containing my submission for the five task assignments which formed 40% of the assessment for the module.
- A Jupyter Notebook file called 'project.ipynb', containing my submission for the project which forms another 40% of the assessment for the module.

The **tasks** part of the project consists of five tasks; four of these required us to analyse a dataset relating to penguins on the Palmer Archipelego off Antarctica. The fifth task required us to verify the Collatz Conjecture for the first 10000 integers.

The **project** involved analysing the well-known Iris dataset. This included analysing variables, creating plots and examining relationships between variables.

I used Visual Studio Code (VS Code - version 1.85.1), to write my scripts and to upload them to a repository on GitHub for assessment.

I completed my project using Jupyter Notebook, ran through VS Code. I saved my project as a .ipynb file.

Libraries I downloaded to complete my project are matplotlib, numpy, pandas, seaborn and scikit-learn.

I have included references at the end of each assessment.

Other files and folders found in my repository include:
- A folder called 'data' containing the source data files I used for the project ('iris.data') and to complete the tasks ("penguins").
- A folder called 'task_images' where I saved all plots generated by the code in tasks.ipynb
- A folder called 'project_images' where I saved all plots generated by the code in project.ipynb
- A gitignore file
- This README file


### How to execute my script ###

- Open VSCode. Go the search bar at the top and type '>'. 

- Search for Git: Clone.

- Select Clone from GitHub and press Enter.

- When prompted for the Repository URL, select clone from GitHub, then press Enter.

- Sign into Github, if prompted to.

- Enter the URL "https://github.com/jmce22/fund_data" into the repository field.

- Select which directory on your machine you would like to clone my repository to.

- Select "Open" when asked if you want to open the cloned repository.


To **execute** my script on VS Code:
- Open the file "project.ipynb" 
- Click the 'Run All' button at the top of the screen.

This should cause the script to run, including saving down plots into the folders called 'project_images' (for 'project.ipynb') or 'task_images' for ('tasks.ipynb').